CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Hyperconverged Cluster Operator

## ***This document is a work in progress***

## Contributing to the HyperConverged API

### Add new Feature Gate

1. Add the new feature gate to the HyperConvergedFeatureGates struct
   in [pkg/apis/hco/v1beta1/hyperconverged_types.go](pkg/apis/hco/v1beta1/hyperconverged_types.go)
   - make sure the name of the feature gate field is as the feature gate field in the target operand, including casing.
     But it also must start with a capital letter.
   - Set the field type to `FeatureGate`.
   - Make sure the json name in the json tag is valid (e.g. starts with a small cap).
   - add open-api annotations:
      - add detailed description in the comment
      - default annotation
      - optional annotation

for example:

  ```golang
  // Allow migrating a virtual machine with SRIOV interfaces.
  // When enabled virt-launcher pods of virtual machines with SRIOV
  // interfaces run with CAP_SYS_RESOURCE capability.
  // This may degrade virt-launcher security.
  // +optional
  // +kubebuilder:default=false
  SRIOVLiveMigration FeatureGate `json:"sriovLiveMigration,omitempty"`
  ```

1. Add the new flag to the default of the FeatureGates field in the `HyperConvergedSpec` struct
1. Add the new flag to the `"Should return true for each enabled gate"`,
   in [pkg/apis/hco/v1beta1/hyperconverged_types_test.go](pkg/apis/hco/v1beta1/hyperconverged_types_test.go)
1. Add the new flag to the relevant operator handler. Currently this is only supported for KubeVirt. For KubeVirt, do
   the following:
   In [pkg/controller/operands/kubevirt.go](pkg/controller/operands/kubevirt.go)
   - Add a constant for the flag name in the constant block marked with the `// KubeVirt FeatureGates` comment.
   - Add this new constant to the `kvFeatureGateList` slice.

   The code that uses this is in `getKvFeatureGateList` function. This function takes only KubeVirt feature gates from
   the currently **enabled** feature gares in the HyperConverged CR. To add a new feature gate in another operand, a
   implement a similar logic in this operand handler file.

Commit message:

Applying code review comments:
* Remove the old 7 feature gates from the CRD: [DataVolumes, SRIOV, LiveMigration, CPUManager, CPUNodeDiscovery, Sidecar, Snapshot]; these feature gates are not exposed to the user and are set by HCO as had coded values in the KubeVirt CR.
* Add some wording to the CONTRIBUTING.md file to explain the API design principles.

Signed-off-by: Nahshon Unna-Tsameret <nunnatsa@redhat.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Hyperconverged Cluster Operator

The Hyperconverged Cluster Operator represents an opinionated deployment of KubeVirt. Its purpose is to deploy KubeVirt
and accompanying projects with good defaults, so they work together well for most people, in a testable and reproducible
manner.

This means that the API of HCO should be kept simple. HCO should do everything right out of the box, so it is easy to
test and deploy. Sometimes, however, HCO cannot guess what is the right thing to do. On these rare occasions, a
configurable is exposed in its Resource. Each configurable must be documented, so it is clear for a human operator when
it should be used, and why the correct value cannot be guessed automatically.

## ***This document is a work in progress***

## Contributing to the HyperConverged API

### Add new Feature Gate

Think twice before you do. Feature gates make HCO very hard to test; each of them essentially duplicates our test
matrix. They also complicate life for the human operator, who has to read the documentation to understand the
implications of pressing a knob. You should add new featureGate only if hard-coding it to true considerably harms our
typical users.

1. Add the new feature gate to the HyperConvergedFeatureGates struct
   in [pkg/apis/hco/v1beta1/hyperconverged_types.go](pkg/apis/hco/v1beta1/hyperconverged_types.go)
   - make sure the name of the feature gate field is as the feature gate field in the target operand, including casing.
     But it also must start with a capital letter.
   - Set the field type to `FeatureGate`.
   - Make sure the json name in the json tag is valid (e.g. starts with a small cap).
   - add open-api annotations:
      - add detailed description in the comment
      - default annotation
      - optional annotation

for example:

  ```golang
  // Allow migrating a virtual machine with SRIOV interfaces.
  // When enabled virt-launcher pods of virtual machines with SRIOV
  // interfaces run with CAP_SYS_RESOURCE capability.
  // This may degrade virt-launcher security.
  // +optional
  // +kubebuilder:default=false
  SRIOVLiveMigration FeatureGate `json:"sriovLiveMigration,omitempty"`
  ```

1. Add the new flag to the default of the FeatureGates field in the `HyperConvergedSpec` struct
1. Add the new flag to the `"Should return true for each enabled gate"`,
   in [pkg/apis/hco/v1beta1/hyperconverged_types_test.go](pkg/apis/hco/v1beta1/hyperconverged_types_test.go)
1. Add the new flag to the relevant operator handler. Currently this is only supported for KubeVirt. For KubeVirt, do
   the following:
   In [pkg/controller/operands/kubevirt.go](pkg/controller/operands/kubevirt.go)
   - Add a constant for the flag name in the constant block marked with the `// KubeVirt FeatureGates` comment.
   - Add this new constant to the `kvFeatureGateList` slice.

   The code that uses this is in `getKvFeatureGateList` function. This function takes only KubeVirt feature gates from
   the currently **enabled** feature gares in the HyperConverged CR. To add a new feature gate in another operand, a
   implement a similar logic in this operand handler file.
