docs/metrics.md, before:

# Hyperconverged Cluster Operator metrics
This document aims to help users that are not familiar with metrics exposed by the Hyperconverged Cluster Operator.
All metrics documented here are auto-generated by the utility tool `tools/metricsdocs` and reflects exactly what is being exposed.

## Hyperconverged Cluster Operator Metrics List
### kubevirt_hco_hyperconverged_cr_exists
Indicates whether the HyperConverged custom resource exists (1) or not (0). Type: Gauge.
### kubevirt_hco_out_of_band_modifications_count
Count of out-of-band modifications overwritten by HCO. Type: Counter.
### kubevirt_hco_system_health_status
Indicates whether the system health status is healthy (0), warning (1), or error (2), by aggregating the conditions of HCO and its secondary resources. Type: Gauge.
### kubevirt_hco_unsafe_modification_count
Count of unsafe modifications in the HyperConverged annotations. Type: Gauge.
## Developing new metrics
After developing new metrics or changing old ones, please run `make generate-doc` to regenerate this document.

If you feel that the new metric doesn't follow these rules, please change `tools/metricsdocs` with your needs.

Commit message:

Add `kubevirt_hyperconverged_operator_health_status` recording rule
Signed-off-by: assafad <aadmi@redhat.com>

docs/metrics.md, after:

# Hyperconverged Cluster Operator metrics
This document aims to help users that are not familiar with metrics exposed by the Hyperconverged Cluster Operator.
All metrics documented here are auto-generated by the utility tool `tools/metricsdocs` and reflects exactly what is being exposed.

## Hyperconverged Cluster Operator Metrics List
### kubevirt_hco_hyperconverged_cr_exists
Indicates whether the HyperConverged custom resource exists (1) or not (0). Type: Gauge.
### kubevirt_hco_out_of_band_modifications_count
Count of out-of-band modifications overwritten by HCO. Type: Counter.
### kubevirt_hco_system_health_status
Indicates whether the system health status is healthy (0), warning (1), or error (2), by aggregating the conditions of HCO and its secondary resources. Type: Gauge.
### kubevirt_hco_unsafe_modification_count
Count of unsafe modifications in the HyperConverged annotations. Type: Gauge.
### kubevirt_hyperconverged_operator_health_status
Indicates whether HCO and its secondary resources health status is healthy (0), warning (1) or critical (2), based both on the firing alerts that impact the operator health, and on kubevirt_hco_system_health_status metric. Type: Gauge.
## Developing new metrics
After developing new metrics or changing old ones, please run `make generate-doc` to regenerate this document.

If you feel that the new metric doesn't follow these rules, please change `tools/metricsdocs` with your needs.
